
# M61A1 20MM CANNON STRAFE

The M61A1 20MM automatic gun system provides the pilot with a formidable weapon capability. It is a six-barrel
Gatling type gun mounted in the left strake of the aircraft. The system has a capacity of 512 rounds of ammunition
fired at 6,000 rounds per minute.

  Summary
          1.     Select A-G Master Mode [2]
          2.     Set Master Arm Switch to Arm
          3.     Set Laser Arm Switch to Arm if laser ranging updates are desired
          4.     Select STRF sub-mode on SMS MFD
          5.     Fly the Pipper onto the target
          6.     Squeeze the Trigger [Space] to the second detent to fire the gun



Target Attack
Upon selection of the A-G master mode, the SMS Air-to-Ground (SMS A-G) page is displayed on the right MFD.
Based on the priority weapon, the information on the SMS A-G page can vary. Follow these steps to achieve the
correct configuration and attack ground targets with the gun:
     1.        Select the STRF sub-mode on the MFD by pressing OSB 1 until GUN is displayed.




                  Operating Mode                                                            Gun Status


               A-G Strafe Sub-mode

                                                                                            Rounds Remaining




                                                                                            In-Range Cue Distance




                                                                                            System Status




     2.        Verify STRF symbology is displayed in the HUD.
               The Strafe Reticle is the default air to ground gunsight and provides aiming information required to fire
               the gun effectively. The center of the reticle is the aiming pipper and represents where the gun rounds
               will go assuming the target is within range. Using the pipper, it is simply a case of “putting the thing
               on the thing” and pulling the trigger.
               Line of sight range is indicated by the digital range numeric on the bottom right of the HUD and the
               ranging reticle that winds or unwinds within the reticle. The position of the ranging reticle indicates the
     slant range to the pipper’s position on the ground. Each quarter circle tick on the strafe reticle
     represents 3,000 feet of slant range, so:
          •      12 o’clock = 12,000 ft
          •      9 o’clock = 9,000 ft
          •      6 o’clock = 6,000 ft
          •      3 o’clock = 3,000 ft
     The in-range cue position may be set by the pilot provide an additional visual cue for the effective
     range against the planned target.



               Gun Cross
                                                                               Strafe Reticle



          Ranging Reticle



              In-Range Cue                                                     Pipper




       Master Arm Status

      A-G Strafe Sub-mode                                                      Slant Range




3.   Maneuver your aircraft to position the pipper on target.
     One technique is to place the pipper short of the target and allow it to track along the ground until it
     reaches the target. This will happen naturally as slant range decreases.




     Laser ranging may be performed to improve the computed firing solution if a targeting pod is installed.
     (See Laser Ranging for more information.)
4.   Squeeze the trigger all the way to the second detent to fire the gun when the pipper is
     over the target and you are within effective range.
     In this example, the pipper is on-target at a slant range of about 5,500 feet as shown by the position
     on the ranging reticle.
          Slant range greatly affects gun effectiveness. As the rounds come out of the gun, they will gradually
          disperse and lose velocity. Increased dispersion and loss of velocity reduce the accuracy and
          effectiveness of the gun. Effective engagement range is generally from 2,500 to 7,000 feet. For
          armored vehicles, closer is better, and you should attack from behind the target where its armor is
          weakest.
          When lining up a shot, be careful to avoid target fixation. Target fixation can lead to you not noticing
          an unseen threat or pressing the attack too close. Don’t make yourself an easy target for the machine
          gun on the top of that APC!
Once you have reached the minimum attack range, break off in both the horizontal and vertical to avoid hostile
return fire. You may also wish to release flares in case an infrared-SAM near the enemy target has been launched
at you, but you did not see it.


In-Range Cue Update
The position of the In-Range Cue on the reticle may be updated by selecting the OSB next to the In-Range Cue
distance on the SMS page.




                                                                                     In-Range Cue Distance
Type in the new in-range cue distance using the OSBs on the left and right of the display and select ENTR. You
may correct numbers entered in error by selecting RCL or return to the SMS page without making changes by
selecting RTN.




                                                                                         In-Range Cue Distance




You will be returned to the SMS page and the new value will be displayed. The cue will be placed on the HUD
Strafe Reticle at that new distance.




                                                                 In-Range Cue Distance
